http://elastic.interviewstreet.com/

These are my submissions for CodeSprint Elastic (June 2, 2012).

I solved two problems out of four, scored 105 points, and was ranked 8th out
of 130+ contestants.

I'm rather unhappy with my own performance. The end result looks decent
enough, but while I solved the two easy problems, I failed to make a dent in
the two actually challenging ones.

DUPLICATE DETECTION

This is absolutely trivial, as is boils down to building a graph and detecting
connected components once again. My PHP solution didn't pass (I blame lame
data structures), but rewriting in C++ was hardly a problem, even though I
just hate working with string data in C++.

COLLAPSING FEEDS

Duh. No trick to this one either. Straightforward approach works just fine,
simply implement according to the spec.

COVERING CITIES REVISITED

I missed the contest that had the original problem (I think it was
inconveniently early in the morning), although I'm not at all sure that would
give me any competitive advantage.

Anyway, nothing clever occurred to me, so I implemented the algorithm as
described, keeping track of coverage counts. This is pretty inefficient, and
the code is quite a mess. I expected this would be enough to get through at
least a few simpler test cases, but in practice I only passed the very first
one, timing out on most of the rest.

There might be an unfound bug in the implementation, as some simpler cases
reported "Wrong Answer". I was unable to track it down in the time given.

For insight on this problem you might want to take a look at the editorial
published by the organizers after the contest.

GRADES

Once again, the editorial has explanations on this. During the contest I went
as far as figuring out this boils down to inequalities dividing the problem
space into regions, but I'm thoroughly unfamiliar with either efficient
geometric algos that would help with this or with linear programming which I
guessed could be applicable. As a result I preferred to concentrate on other
problems, and never attempted this one.

